Add `osu!(lazer) Updates: November 15, 2024` news post (#12450)
ppy/osu-wiki: news/2024/2024-11-15-osulazer-updates-november-15-2024.md

---
layout: post
title: "osu!(lazer) Updates: November 15, 2024"
date: 2024-11-16 23:00:00 +0000
---

This update contains a lot of quality-of-life changes. Feel free to continue your day.

![](/wiki/shared/news/2024-11-16-osulazer-updates-november-15-2024/banner.jpg)

For those who want to pause for a moment to read, here's the complete rundown:

> After the [last update](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-10-09-osulazer-updates-october-9), an [update to performance algorithms](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-10-28-performance-points-star-rating-updates) was rolled out to all players. If your global rank went up, congratulations. If not, maybe it's time to get back on the grind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After the [last update](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-10-09-osulazer-updates-october-9), an [update to performance algorithms](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/news/2024-10-28-performance-points-star-rating-updates) was rolled out to all players. If your global rank went up, congratulations! If not, maybe it's time to get back on the grind.
```

Below you will find [peppy](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/2) and [pishifat](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/3178418) discussing the rollout as well as all the new neat changes in the game.

<div align="center">
    <iframe width="95%" style="aspect-ratio: 16 / 9;" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/YKljRdxfhxQ" frameborder="0" allowfullscreen></iframe>
</div>

## Editor changes

> - **Added keyboard shortcut for cycling grid types (`Shift` + `G`).** Did you know we have not just square, but triangular and circular grids as well?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Added a keyboard shortcut for cycling grid types (`Shift` + `G`).** Did you know we have not just square, but triangular and circular grids as well?
```

Author: it's actually supposed to be a noun phrase (and not a sentence), i.e. "added" is an adjective (but it's ambiguous and works both ways)

> - **Toggles and shortcuts for hitsound sample addition banks.** Seasoned mappers will likely be familiar with the `Shift`/`Alt` + `Q`/`W`/`E`/`R` hitsounding keys already, which now all work on osu!(lazer).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Toggles and shortcuts for hitsound sample addition banks have been added.** Seasoned mappers will likely be familiar with the `Shift`/`Alt` + `Q`/`W`/`E`/`R` hitsounding keys already, which now all work on osu!(lazer).
```

Author: same here, these are worded as noun phrases

> - **Toggles and shortcuts for hitsound sample addition banks.** Seasoned mappers will likely be familiar with the `Shift`/`Alt` + `Q`/`W`/`E`/`R` hitsounding keys already, which now all work on osu!(lazer).

Reviewer: would be nice to showcase the new UI for this in a screenshot

Author: added

- **Breaks can now be hidden from the timeline.** Minor visual change for those who find this indicator distracting.

## Gameplay changes

- **Pausing is now instant when hitting the pause key (`Esc`).** This used to be affected by the "hold-to-confirm activation time" setting.
- **The time it takes to quick retry (`Ctrl` + `R`) has been decreased.** Without arbitrary delays, you'll be back in action as soon as the beatmap loads, i.e. about one second faster than before.

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <video width="95%" controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/media/news/2024-11-16-quick-retry.mp4" type="video/mp4" preload="none">
    </video>
</div>

## Skinning changes

- **New "use relative size" setting for song progress bars.** Best explained with a video:

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <video width="95%" controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/media/news/2024-11-16-relative-skin-size.mp4" type="video/mp4" preload="none">
    </video>
</div>

## Other changes

> - **New osu!mania ruleset selection sample.** Our audio engineer [nekodex](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102) has been at it again. Take a listen:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **The osu!mania ruleset selection sample has been reworked.** Our audio engineer [nekodex](https://osu.ppy.sh/users/102) has been at it again. Take a listen:
```

Before:

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/media/news/2024-11-16-ruleset-select-mania-before.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

After:

<div class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <audio controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/media/news/2024-11-16-ruleset-select-mania-after.mp3">
    </audio>
</div>

- **You can now search chat channels and the friends/online user listing.** Popular and social people will appreciate this one.

> - **New `ranked` and `submitted` date filtering in song select.** This already existed on the website. See the [beatmap search article](/wiki/Beatmap_search) for an extensive list of filters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **New `ranked` and `submitted` date filters can now be used in song select.** This already existed on the website. See the [beatmap search article](/wiki/Beatmap_search) for an extensive list of filters.
```

- **Searching mods by acronym will highlight the corresponding mod for selection.** `F1` + mod acronym + `Enter` + `F1`. Now if only I could remember all the new mod acronyms...

<div align="center" class="osu-md__paragraph">
    <video width="95%" controls>
        <source src="https://assets.ppy.sh/media/news/2024-11-16-mod-acronym-search.mp4" type="video/mp4" preload="none">
    </video>
</div>

> - **New settings button to reset all beatmap offsets.** Useful when you realise you've set all your offsets wrong.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **A new settings button has been added to reset all beatmap offsets.** Useful when you realise you've set all your offsets wrong.
```

- **Local scores are now preserved even when deleting maps.** Quality-of-life change for maintainers of large beatmap libraries.

> - **New context menu option for copying link to an online score.** The same thing exists when right-clicking beatmaps in song select, btw.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Copying links to plays can now be done by right-clicking on them from the song select screen.** The same option exists for beatmaps in song select, btw.
```

> - **New context menu option for copying link to an online score.** The same thing exists when right-clicking beatmaps in song select, btw.

Reviewer: "btw" feels a bit too casual for the writing style of this newspost series

Author: ```suggestion
- **New context menu option for copying link to an online score.** The same thing exists when right-clicking beatmaps in song select, by the way.
```

![Copying a score link](/wiki/shared/news/2024-11-16-osulazer-updates-november-15-2024/score-link-copy.jpg)

- **Option sliders can now be selected and adjusted with arrow keys.** They were previously controllable with arrow keys while hovered, but now they work exactly the same as in osu!(stable).

![Option slider keyboard input](/wiki/shared/news/2024-11-16-osulazer-updates-november-15-2024/option-slider-keyboard-input.gif)

---

> It's now easier than ever to farm performance points in [osu!(lazer)](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/download). If you were interested in the minor changes, check out the [full changelog](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/lazer/2024.1115.3).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's now easier than ever to farm performance points in [osu!(lazer)](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/download). If you are interested in every nook and cranny involving this update, check out the [full changelog](https://osu.ppy.sh/home/changelog/lazer/2024.1115.3).
```
